{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14200\viewh16500\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Do you know what the majority religion is in India?  How about Indonesia?\
\
If you do not, you are not alone.\
\
In fact only 52% of Americans between the ages of 18 and 24 know that India\'92s majority religion is Hindu.  (Islam, the second most prevalent religion is not even close).  Even more staggering is how many know that Indonesia\'92s majority religion is Islam\'97 just 25% of American youth.\
\
How about a more basic question, can you find Indonesia on a map?  If so, you are in the minority.  Once again, only 25% could locate it.  Only 53% could find India on a map.\
\
Here are a couple of other mind-blowing statistics for young Americans1{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nationalgeographic.com/roper2006/pdf/FINALReport2006GeogLitsurvey.pdf"}}{\fldrslt http://www.nationalgeographic.com/roper2006/pdf/FINALReport2006GeogLitsurvey.pdf}}:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
90% could not find Afghanistan even on a map just of Asia.\
54% were unaware that Sudan is a country in Africa.\
20% of young Americans think Sudan is in Asia.\
70% could not find Iran OR Israel.\
63% failed to correctly locate Iraq on a map of the Middle East even though the US invaded Iraq in 2003.\
\
Unsurprisingly, this startling lack of knowledge extends to domestic questions:\
\
50% of young Americans could not find New York on a map.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
33% could not find Louisiana.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
As I learned more about our total failure to educate our youth in the fields of geography, foreign affairs, and geopolitics, many questions behind to permeate my brain.  How did this lack of knowledge come about?  How profound of an impact does this have on world affairs?  How can Americans lecture the world on morality, human rights, and American exceptionalism if most of our population does not know where the rest of the world is?  In such a complicated globalized world, should geography and geopolitical education not be one of the most important fields of study?\
\
Finding answers to these questions is vital to solving our problem of lacking geography education.  To quote 
\i The Newsroom
\i0  \'93
\f2 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The first step in solving any problem is recognizing there is one.\'942\
\
\
Our Grand Old Party  (CARDS NEXT TO)\
\
This problem is cyclical.  Having a lack of understanding in the populous results in our elected officials knowing less.  If our elected officials know less, then they will make misleading and incorrect public statements, whether intentional or not, that will further spread misinformation among the general public.  As this process repeats itself we wind up with more and more outlandish ideas coming out of the political sphere.  For example, the leading Republican candidates for president right now are Donald Trump and Ben Carson.  More than 50% of registered Republicans would vote for one of those two candidates if the Republican primaries were held today.  If you pit one of them against Hillary Clinton in a general election simulation, either one takes home, on average, between 45%-52% of votes from all Americans3REALCLEARPOL.  Ben Carson has publicly compared Syrian refugees to rabid dogs4{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cbsnews.com/news/ben-carson-compares-syrian-refugees-to-rabid-dogs-calls-for-more-u-s-vetting/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.cbsnews.com/news/ben-carson-compares-syrian-refugees-to-rabid-dogs-calls-for-more-u-s-vetting/}}, and Donald Trump has famously stated that he thinks Mexico is sending rapists across the border to the US5{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2015/06/16/trump_mexico_not_sending_us_their_best_criminals_drug_dealers_and_rapists_are_crossing_border.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2015/06/16/trump_mexico_not_sending_us_their_best_criminals_drug_dealers_and_rapists_are_crossing_border.html}}.  These outlandish statements may stem from personal bigotry or a lack of education in the minds of those two candidates, but the ability of these types of statements to rally the Republican base is an example of a broader problem in the US.  These two candidates have symbolized a change in the American political sphere.  They appeal to the baser instincts of the base of the Republican party.  Real worries about security and the lack of moral fiber in American culture are completely legitimate.  However, these candidates have managed to use these concerns to further their xenophobic and self-interested agendas by scaring people and whipping them into a frenzy against refugees, immigrants, and minorities.  (See, Black Lives Matter protestor assaulted at Trump rally{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/11/22/black-activist-punched-at-donald-trump-rally-in-birmingham/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/11/22/black-activist-punched-at-donald-trump-rally-in-birmingham/}}).\
\
Bigotry and xenophobia are directly related to a lack of understanding of the differences between people and an inability to view the world through someone else\'92s eyes.  If every supporter at a Trump rally were to have to take a couple classes in world geography and modern history, I sincerely doubt that the levels of animosity and emotion directed towards people of different ethnicities, followers of different faiths, or those who speak a different language would remain as high as they do today.\
\
\
National Origin, Ethnicity, Language, and Religion\
\
Since 9/11, there has been a severe uptick in the stereotyping of \'93Middle Easterners.\'94  We hear these bigoted statements everyday, whether you are just walking down the street or watching Fox News.  These statements follow one particularly uneducated line of thinking that encourages racism: they conflate being Middle Eastern with being Arab with being Muslim.  Oh, how this could not be more wrong.  To talk about all Muslims is to talk about 1.5 billion people, of which only 20% are Arab.  Only half of Arab countries are in the \'93Middle East\'94 and not all Middle Eastern countries are Arab or majority Muslim.  When we discuss the Muslim world we must distinguish between differences in national origin, ethnicity, language, and even different types of Islam.\
\
The first thing to understand about global Islam is the vast array of diverse nations who have a majority Muslim population.  These nations extend from Morocco to Indonesia.  Only a subset of these nations are in the Middle East.  In fact, only 20% of all Muslims live in the Middle East and North Africa while 62% live in the rest of Asia (not including Middle Eastern nations) and another 15% live in sub-Saharan Africa6{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.pewforum.org/2009/10/07/mapping-the-global-muslim-population/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.pewforum.org/2009/10/07/mapping-the-global-muslim-population/}}.  The largest Muslim population in the world is in Indonesia, followed by Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh (notice that none of those countries are in the Middle East).  The fact that 80% of the world\'92s Muslims live outside of the Middle East and North Africa makes stereotyping the \'93Muslim Middle East\'94 ridiculous by itself.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 MAPS OF POPULATION\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
The second major differentiator between Muslims is their ethnicity.  This usually coincides with language, although not always.  The Arab ethnicity makes up 20% of Muslims.  Nations which are a majority Arab make up a body called the Arab League.  There are 23 nations in the Arab League, half of which are in the Middle East.  Arabic is the indigenous language of Arabs and is a national language in all Arab league nations as well Chad and Eritrea.  Here is a list of the top 10 countries with the largest numbers of Muslims, only 3 of which are majority Arab (Egypt, Algeria, and Morocco),  and two of which are in the Middle East (Turkey and Egypt):\
\
Muslim Population from 2009 in millions7 (
\f3\fs20 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Pew Research Center\'92s Forum on Religion & Public Life \'95 Mapping the Global Muslim Population, October 2009)
\f2\fs24 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
Indonesia\
203\
Pakistan\
174\
India\
161\
Bangladesh\
145\
Egypt\
79\
Nigeria\
78\
Iran\
74\
Turkey\
74\
Algeria\
34\
Morocco\
32\
\
MAPS OF ARABS\
\
\
The last major difference between Muslims is an individual\'92s interpretation of Islam and this divisor is said to be, by far, the greatest cause of conflict between Muslim nations.  A great example of this is the power struggle in the Middle East (resulting in current proxy wars in Yemen and Syria) between Saudi Arabia (majority Sunni) and Iran (majority Shiite).  Another would be the war \cf0 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 from 1980-1988 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 between Iran and Iraq (majority Shiite as well, but Saddam Hussein\'92s ruling party represented the Sunni minority and oppressed the Shiite majority during his reign).  There are two major groups: Shia (followers being Shiites) and Sunni (followers being Sunnis).  Approximately 87-90% of Muslims worldwide are Sunnis while only 10-13% are Shiites.  These populations are not spread out, however.  There are four majority Shiite nations: Iran, Iraq, Azerbaijan, and Bahrain (there is a plurality in Lebanon).  However, the four largest Shiite populations are in Iran, Pakistan, India, and Iraq (Pakistan and India having massive Sunni populations that are far larger).  More than a third of the world\'92s Shia Muslims live in Iran8{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.pewforum.org/2009/10/07/mapping-the-global-muslim-population/"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 http://www.pewforum.org/2009/10/07/mapping-the-global-muslim-population/}}.\
\
MAPS OF SHIA\
\
Terrorism\
\
Many of the stereotypes surrounding Islam in America is the connection between extremist interpretations of Islam and terrorism.  It is important to note Islam is not the only religion that has fringe groups which have terrorist elements.  Terrorism is unrelated to a specific religion, take a look at the Spanish Inquisition{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spanish_Inquisition"}}{\fldrslt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spanish_Inquisition}}, the KKK in America{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ku_Klux_Klan"}}{\fldrslt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ku_Klux_Klan}}, or the persecution of Rohingya Muslims in Mynamar{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persecution_of_Muslims_in_Myanmar"}}{\fldrslt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persecution_of_Muslims_in_Myanmar}}, all of which are cases in which extraordinary terrorizing violence happened in the name of religion.  However, the huge increase in Islamist terrorism in recent years is a serious issue, but it is not the fault of Islam or all Muslims.  It stems from serious sectarian differences and socioeconomic inequality in specific nations across the Muslim world.  For example, the largest Muslim nation in the world, Indonesia, has no relation to any of the common terrorist groups often talked about in today\'92s society.  These groups are Al Qaeda (mainly in Pakistan and Afghanistan), Daesh or ISIS (residing in Syria, Iraq, and to a lesser degree, Libya), Al Shabab (based in Somalia), and Boko Haram (based in Nigeria).  These groups are abhorrent and their followers and sympathizers make up a minuscule percentage of the Muslim population of the world.  They have different ideologies and practices and operate from sub-Saharan Africa to the Himalayas and carry out attacks from Paris to Nairobi.  None of them represent the religion of Islam just as the KKK does not represent Christianity.\
\
The most current hysteria about terrorism is about Daesh, or ISIS.  However, it is not difficult to understand where this group came from.  When Saddam Hussein ruled Iraq, there was stability (even though stability was enforced because Saddam\'92s reign was a brutal dictatorship that persecuted many of its own citizens).  When the US misguidedly invaded Iraq in 2003, it removed this stability, even as it removed a brutal dictator.  Many different actors have since filled the power vacuum in Iraq that was created after the removal of American troops at the end of the Iraq War.  One of these is ISIS.  While President Bush was obviously not trying to create instability or encourage terrorism, his unnecessary invasion of Iraq is the most direct cause of the rise of ISIS.  This is just another example of American intervention abroad that has had unintended consequences since the end of World War II in 1945.\
\
In my opinion, the greatest threat to global security does not come from any of these terrorist groups, however.  It comes from the government of Pakistan.  Pakistan is one of the few nations with nuclear weapons, yet it is one the most unstable nations on the planet.  The intelligence services in Pakistan are currently embroiled in an internal power struggle between sympathizers of the Taliban (who are sympathizers of Al Qaeda) and more pro-Western elements.  The massive internal strife and poverty in Pakistan creates a terribly unstable nation that has enough nuclear weapons to blow its largest neighbor, and most vehement opponent, India, off the map.\
\
\
Colonial Borders\
\
A great deal of the conflict in the world today is caused by a blatant lack of understanding of geographic and ethnic differences among populations under the control of colonial overlords.  Most of the current national borders in Africa and the Middle East are the results of random lines drawn in the sand by Europeans imperialists centuries ago that have no regard for local ethnic and political lines.  For example, the border between Syria and Iraq is, for the most part, a straight line in the desert.  Another is the border between Algeria and Libya.  Or Mali and Mauritania.  There were so many random lines drawn to create nations.  When this occurs, it is incredibly difficult to unify a nation around one government when there are so many differences between the populations within the country.  This is a direct cause of much of the instability in the Middle East.\
\
\
\
\
The continuing lack of geography education in US is contributing to the rise in xenophobia among Americans and a greater mistrust among foreign nations of the US.  A staggering 75% of young Americans think English is the most widely spoken native language.  This is just one of many factors in our chilly relationship with China (from where Mandarin, the most widely spoken native language in the world, originates).  Less than 30% of American youth think it is important to know the locations of countries in the news and just 14% believe learning another language is a valuable skill9{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nationalgeographic.com/roper2006/pdf/FINALReport2006GeogLitsurvey.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 http://www.nationalgeographic.com/roper2006/pdf/FINALReport2006GeogLitsurvey.pdf}}.  And we wonder why we make massive foreign policy blunders such as invading Iraq, a country most of us could not even locate on a map.\
\
\
\
\
\
DO FOOTNOTES\
\
STYLE STATS\
\
\
}